MONUMENTS ARE CLOSED, AND
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF WORKERS
AFFECTED ON THIS FIRST DAY OF A
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
THERE WERE FEW SIGNS OF A
SOLUTION TO THE STALEMATE ON
CAPITOL HILL, BUT THERE WAS A
FLOOD OF TRAFFIC TO THE
GOVERNMENT'S NEW HEALTHCARE
SITE.
>> Woodruff: ON DAY ONE OF THE
INSURANREPORTS FROM MASSACHUSTST
WHICH HAS HAD YEARS OF
EXPERIENCE WITH THEM.
>> IT'S THE MODEL FOR THE
STATE EXCHANGES BEING SET
UP UNDER THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
SOME QUARTER OF A MILLION
PEOPLE NOW GET INSURANCE
FROM NINE PRIVATE
COMPANIES.
>> Ifill: PLUS, RAY SUAREZ SITS
DOWN WITH ENTERTAINMENT LEGEND
RITA MORENO AS SHE LOOKS BACK AT
THE CHALLENGE OF HER FIRST DAYS
AS A PERFORMER.
>> I WORE TOO MUCH MAKEUP, AND I
DID ALL OF THAT "CONCHITA
LOLITA" STUFF.
YOU KNOW, I WORE VERY TIGHT
DRESSES AND THEN WOULD BE
OFFENDED WHEN... WHEN MEN WOULD
MAKE REMARKS ABOUT ME.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT: MUCH OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT WAS DARK AFTER
CONGRESS FAILED TO AGREE ON
A STOPGAP FUNDING BILL.
REPUBLICANS REFUSED TO BUDGE ON
THEIR DEMANDS TO DELAY PARTS OF
THE PRESIDENT'S HEALTH CARE LAW.
DEMOCRATS REMAINED ADAMANTLY
OPPOSED TO THOSE DEMANDS.
NEWSHOUR CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> Reporter: THE EFFECTS OF THE
SHUTDOWN WERE WIDESPREAD AND
IMMEDIATE.
IN WASHINGTON THIS MORNING, THE
LINCOLN MEMORIAL, OVERSEEN BY
THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, WAS
CLOSED TO VISITORS.
>> AT THIS POINT, WE DON'T KNOW
HOW LONG THIS IS GOING TO GO ON
FOR.
>> Reporter: PARK SERVICE
SPOKESMAN MIKE LITTERST LAMENTED
THAT THE PAIN OF A SHUTDOWN WILL
BE FELT BY MANY.
>> WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT THE
INCONVENIENCE OF A... OF A FEW
HUNDRED PEOPLE HERE AND THERE.
THERE ARE TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE WHOSE VACATION PLANS AND
VISITS TO THESE HISTORIC AND
NATIONAL SITES ARE BEING
IMPACTED.
715,000 PEOPLE A DAY IN THE
MONTH OF OCTOBER WOULD BE
EXPECTED TO VISIT NATIONAL
PARKS, AND AGAIN THE RIPPLE
EFFECT GOES OUT INTO THE
SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES TO THE
TUNE OF $76 MILLION.
>> Reporter: AMONG THOSE TURNED
AWAY: A TOUR BUS FULL OF
RETIREES ON A 13-STATE TRIP.
>> IT RUINED THE TRIP FOR
EVERYBODY ON THE BUS, YOU KNOW,
AND THESE TRIPS WE LOOK FORWARD
TO.
>> I'M 75, AND I PROBABLY WON'T
BE BACK, SO THIS IS REALLY A
DISAPPOINTMENT.
AND IT JUST MAKES ME SAD.
>> Reporter: ACROSS THE COUNTRY,
ALL 401 NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
SITES WERE SHUTTERED, FROM THE
STATUE OF LIBERTY IN NEW YORK TO
MUIR WOODS A FEW MILES NORTH OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
>> IT'S JUST A NATIONAL MONUMENT
THAT WE'RE NOT ABLE TO SEE, AND
IT'S JUST DISAPPOINTING.
AND I CAN'T BE ABLE TALK TO MY
GRANDCHILDREN OR CHILDREN ABOUT
IT BECAUSE WE'RE NOT ABLE TO
EXPERIENCE IT.
>> Reporter: BACK IN WASHINGTON,
OTHER POPULAR TOURIST SITES ALSO
SHUT THEIR DOORS, INCLUDING THE
SMITHSONIAN MUSEUMS AND THE
NATIONAL ZOO, WHERE THE POPULAR
PANDA CAM WENT DARK.
ACTIVITIES DEEMED ESSENTIAL,
SUCH AS BORDER PATROL AND AIR
TRAFFIC CONTROL, CONTINUED, AS
DID MILITARY, LAW ENFORCEMENT
AND INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS.
LAST NIGHT, PRESIDENT OBAMA
SIGNED A BILL THAT GUARANTEES
ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL
WILL BE PAID, REGARDLESS.
>> YOUR TALENTS AND DEDICATION
HELP KEEP OUR MILITARY THE BEST
IN THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: ON THE OTHER HAND,
SOME 800,000 CIVILIAN FEDERAL
EMPLOYEES WERE FORCED OFF THE
JOB.
J. DAVID COX IS HEAD OF THE
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES.
>> I ACTUALLY PREFER TO CALL IT
A GOVERNMENT LOCKOUT BECAUSE
EMPLOYEES ARE BEING LOCKED OUT
OF THEIR JOB.
OUR MEMBERS WANT TO GO TO WORK
TODAY, THEY WANT TO SERVE THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC, THEY WANT TO
PROVIDE SERVICES.
>> Reporter: BUT FOR THOSE TOLD
TO STAY HOME, THERE WERE
SHUTDOWN-THEMED EVENTS THAT
OFFERED EVERYTHING FROM
"POLITICAL PING PONG" TO FREE
FOOD.
THE SHUTDOWN'S EFFECTS EVEN
REACHED THE CAPITOL, WHERE SOME
STAFFERS WERE FURLOUGHED AND
HEARINGS POSTPONED.
BUT LAWMAKERS REMAINED AT
LOGGERHEADS OVER HOW TO BREAK
THE STALEMATE.
OVERNIGHT, HOUSE REPUBLICANS
PASSED YET ANOTHER FUNDING BILL
WITH ANTI-OBAMACARE PROVISIONS
AND CALLED FOR NEGOTIATIONS WITH
THE SENATE.
THAT, TOO, WENT NOWHERE.
>> ON THIS, THE AYES ARE 54 AND
THE NAYS ARE 46.
>> Reporter: SHORTLY AFTER
GAVELING IN THIS MORNING, THE
DEMOCRATIC-CONTROLLED SENATE
QUICKLY REJECTED THAT MEASURE ON
A STRAIGHT PARTY-LINE VOTE.
MAJORITY LEADER HARRY REID SAID
BLAME FOR THE SHUTDOWN RESTS
ENTIRELY WITH HOUSE REPUBLICANS.
>> THE GOVERNMENT IS CLOSED
BECAUSE OF THE IRRATIONALITY OF
WHAT'S GOING ON, ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE CAPITOL.
THAT'S UNFORTUNATE, BUT THAT'S
THE WAY IT IS.
>> Reporter: ON THE HOUSE FLOOR,
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER POINTED THE
FINGER AT DEMOCRATS, SAYING THEY
WERE UNWILLING TO NEGOTIATE.
>> MY GOODNESS, THEY WON'T EVEN
SIT DOWN AND HAVE A DISCUSSION
ABOUT THIS.
OUR COUNTRY HAS BIG PROBLEMS.
TODAY, OUR GOVERNMENT HAS BIG
PROBLEMS.
THE ONLY WAY THESE PROBLEMS ARE
GOING TO BE RESOED, LVIF WE SIT
DOWN AMICABLY AND KEEP THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE IN MIND AND COME
TO AN AGREEMENT.
>> Reporter: THIS AFTERNOON, THE
PRESIDENT INSISTED AGAIN THERE
WILL BE NO AGREEMENT UNLESS
HOUSE REPUBLICANS STOP ATTACHING
ITEMS SUCH AS CHANGES TO HIS
HEALTH CARE LAW, WHICH BEGAN
ENROLLING UNINSURED AMERICANS
TODAY.
>> I URGE HOUSE REPUBLICANS TO
REOPEN THE GOVERNMENT, RESTART
THE SERVICES AMERICANS DEPEND
ON, AND ALLOW THE PUBLIC
SERVANTS WHO HAVE BEEN SENT HOME
TO RURN ETTO WORK.
THIS IS ONLY GOING TO HAPPEN
WHEN REPUBLICANS REALIZE THEY
DON'T GET TO HOLD THE ENTIRE
ECONOMY HOSTAGE OVER IDEOLOGICAL
DEMANDS.
>> Reporter: AS THE DAY WORE ON,
THERE WAS TALK OF THE HOUSE
PASSING SMALL, TARGETED MEASURES
TO REOPEN PARTS OF THE
GOVERNMENT, INCLUDING THE
NATIONAL PARKS.
THE WHITE HOUSE IMMEDIATELY
DISMISSED THE IDEA, SAYING IT
SHOWED AN "UTTER LACK OF
SERIOUSNESS."
WITH BOTH SIDES UNMOVING, IT
REMAINED IMPOSSIBLE TO PREDICT
WHEN THE DEADLOCK MIGHT END.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL HAVE MORE ON
ALL OF THIS RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
WALL STREET STEADIED ITSELF AND
EVEN REGAINED SOME GROUND,
DESPITE THE PARTIAL GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 62 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,191.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 46 POINTS TO
CLOSE JUST SHORT OF 3,818.
THE MARKETS WERE HELPED IN PART
BY NEWS THAT MANUFACTURING GREW
IN SEPTEMBER BY THE MOST IN TWO
AND A HALF YEARS.
SEPTEMBER WASN'T SUCH A GOOD
MONTH FOR AUTO MAKERS.
G.M. AND VOLKSWAGEN REPORTED
TODAY THEIR SALES DROPPED BY
DOUBLE DIGITS, AND TOYOTA AND
NISSAN SALES ALSO FELL.
BUT FO ANDRD CHRYSLER HAD THEIR
BEST SEPTEMBER IN SIX TO SEVEN
YEARS.
THE PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL
WARNED THE WORLD TODAY TO STAND
FIRM ON SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU TOLD THE U.N.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY THERE MUST BE A
CREDIBLE MILITARY THREAT, TOO,
AND HE SAID ISRAEL IS PREPARED
TO STAND ALONE IN DEFDINGEN
ITSELF.
MORE ON THIS STORY LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
AN ADVANCE GROUP OF
INTERNATIONAL WEAPONS INSPECTORS
HAS ARRIVED IN SYRIA TO BEGIN
THE HUNT FOR CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
THEIR CONVOY CROSSED THE BORDER
FROM LEBANON TODAY, CARRYING 20
INSPECTORS FROM A WATCHDOG
AGENCY BASED IN THE NETHERLANDS.
THEY ARE TASKED WITH FINDING AND
DISMANTLING THE REGIME'S
CHEMICAL ARSENAL.
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL HAS
ORDERED THAT THE WEAPONS BE
ELIMINATED BY THE MIDDLE OF NEXT
YEAR.
THE U.N. REPORTS A SURGE OF
KILLINGS IN IRAQ BROUGHT THE
DEATH TOLL FOR SEPTEMBER TO
NEARLY 1,000.
YESTERDAY ALONE, MORE THAN 50
PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN CAR
BOMBINGS IN BAGHDAD, MANY OF
THEM CHILDREN.
TODAY, A MAN WHO LOST TWO SONS
RECENTLY APPEALED FOR PEACE.
>> WHAT IS THE GOAL WHICH
HAS BEEN ACHIEVED BY
TERRORISTS TO KILL
INNOCENT CHILDREN.
THE CHILDREN ARE NOT
MILITARY LEADERS OR
OFFICIALS IN THE
GOVERNMENT.
MY CHILDREN WERE GOING TO
SCHOOL.
ONE WAS IN THE FIRST YEAR,
AND THE OTHER IN SECOND
YEAR IN SCHOOL.
THEY WENT TO THE CEMETERY
INSTEAD OF GOING TO
SCHOOL.
>> Woodruff: IRAQ HAS BEEN
CAUGHT UP IN ITS WORST SECTARIAN
VIOLENCE SINCE 2008.
IT BEGAN AFT CENT ON A
SUNNI PROTEST CAMP LAST APRIL.
BUDDHIST MOBS RAGED THROUGH
WESTERN MYANMAR TODAY, ATTACKING
MUSLIMS AND BURNING AT LEAST 70
HOMES.
THE TROUBLE HIT THREE VILLAGES
IN RAKHINE STATE, WHERE UNREST
HAS BEEN GROWING SINCE JUNE OF
LAST YEAR.
THOUSANDS OF MUSLIMS HAVE BEEN
FORCED TO FLEE SINCE THEN, AND
TODAY MYANMAR'S PRESIDENT
ARRIVED IN RAKHINE, URGING
RESIDENTS TO RESTORE CALM.
>> JUST MILITARY AND
POLICE FORCES WON'T BE
ENOUGH TO CONTROL THE
SITUATION.
THESE BURNINGS, KILLINGS,
AND VIOLENCE WILL ONLY
STOP WHEN YOU TAKE PART
AND MAINTAIN PEACE BY
YOURSELF.
>> BUDDHISTS ARE THE
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY IN
MYANMAR, AND MUSLI
>> Woodruff: BUDDHISTS ARE THE
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY IN
MYANMAR, THE FORMER BURMA.
MUSLIMS ACCOUNT FOR JUST FOUR
PERCENT OF THE POPULATION.
ONE IN EIGHT PEOPLE AROUND THE
WORLD IS CHRONICALLY
UNDERNOURISHED, BUT THE NUMBER
IS FALLING.
U.N. FOOD AGENCIES REPORTED THE
FINDINGS TODAY.
THEY ESTIMATED 842 MILLION
PEOPLE SUFFERED FROM CHRONIC
HUNGER BETWEEN 2011 AND 2013.
THAT'S DOWN FROM THE ESTIMATE OF
868 MILLION FOR THE PREVIOUS TWO
YEARS.
THE U.N.'S GOAL IS TO CUT THE
NUMBERS IN HALF BY 2015, BUT THE
AGENCIES WARNED SOME REGIONS MAY
FALL SHORT.
THE US. SUPREME COURT TOOK NO
ACTION TODAY ON PETITIONS TO
REVIEW THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S RULES AIMED AT
CLIMATE CHANGE.
NONE OF THE NINE LEGAL PETITIONS
WERE MENTIONED ON A LIST OF NEW
CASES THAT THE JUSTICES AGREED
TO HEAR.
THE SUPREME COURT'S NEW TERM
BEGINS ON NDAYMO.
STILL AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STUART ROTHENBERG AND SUSAN PAGE
ON THE SHUTDOWN; DAY ONE ON THE
NEW HEALTH INSURANCE EXCHANGES;
WE HAVE A PRIMER ON HOW THEY
WORK; ISRAEL'S PRIME MINISTER
CONDEMNED IRAN'S PRESIDENT AT
THE U.N.; TWO MARINE GENERALS
FIRED FOR NOT PROTECTING A BASE
IN AFGHANISTAN; AND
ENTERTAINMENT LEGEND RITA
MORENO.
>> Ifill: WE RETURN TO OUR LEAD
STORY, THE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
THE POLICY HAS GOTTEN ALL
TANGLED UP WITH THE POLITICS IN
A GIANT GAME OF CHICKEN, AND
EACH SIDE IS CLAIMING THE HIGH
GROUND.
BUT HAVEN'T WE BEEN HERE BEFORE?
LET'S ASK STUART ROTHENBERG OF
THE ROTHENBERG POLITICAL REPORT
AND ROLL CALL; AND SUSAN PAGE,
WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF OF
"U.S.A. TODAY."
>> NOT BECAUSE YOU'VE ALL
BEEN HERE BEFORE, FOR A
LONG TIME, BUT YOU WERE.
I WANT TO ASK YOU FIRST,
SUSAN, THE LEAD IN YOUR
STORY TODAY WAS "NOBODY
BLINKED."
WHY?
>> NOBODY BLINKED, SO WITH
EYES WIDE OPEN, WE HEADED
OVER A CLIFF.
OBAMA DIDN'T BLINK
BECAUSE, OF COURSE, HE IS
NOT GOING TO GIVE AWAY HIS
SIGNATURE LEGISLATIVE
ACHIEVEMENT FOR A
SHORT-TERM CONTINUING
RESOLUTION.
WHY DIDN'T HOUSE
REPUBLICANS BLINK ON A
HAND THEY ARE LIKELY TO
PAY DEARLY FOR POLITICALLY
SPEAKING.
I THINK THEY DIDN'T BLINK
BECAUSE THERE IS A CORE OF
TEA PARTY HOUSE
REPUBLICANS, WHO WERE
ELECTED MANY OF THEM IN
2010 AND 2012, BECAUSE OF
THEIR OPPOSITION TO
OBAMACARE.
AND IT SERVES THEM WELL IN
THEIR DISTRICTS, EVEN
THOUGH IT DOESN'T SERVE
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY WELL
NATIONALLY.
>> BUT, SUE, WHO REALLY
FORCED EACH OTHER'S HAND.
IT WAS THE WHITE HOUSE
FORCING HIS CONFRONTATION
AS WELL?
>> I THINK THE WHITE HOUSE
IS FILLED WITH
CONFRONTATION, AND IS
DOING THINGS TO CONTINUE
IT.
I GIVE A SIMILAR ANSWER,
BUT I'D SAY THE
REPUBLICANS -- THE
DEMOCRATS DON'T FEEL LIKE
THEY NEED TO BLINK.
THE WHITE HOUSE AND
CONGRESSIONAL DEMOCRATS
THINK THEY HAVE THE UPPER
HAND.
THEY LOOK AT THE SURVEYS,
THEY LOOK AT THE POLLS,
THEY THINK THE REPUBLICANS
ARE GOING TO GET BLAMED.
WHY SHOULD THEY BLINK?
AS FAR AS THE REPUBLICANS,
I GUESS I DON'T THINK THEY
CAN AFFORD TO BLINK NOW AT
THIS POINT.
THEY HAVE PAINTED
THEMSELVES INTO A CORNER
OR CALLED THEMSELVES OUT
ON TO THE LIMB, USE
WHATEVER IMAGERY YOU WOULD
LIKE.
BUT THEY HAVE BEEN TELLING
THEIR BASE FOR MONTHS
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
BLINK.
IF THEY WALK AWAY WITH
NOTHING OUT OF THIS, I
THINK THAT REALLY CREATES
A LOT OF DISAPPOINTMENT
AND REPUBLICANS HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT TURNOUT IN THE
MID-TERM.
>> BUT AS YOU WATCHED THEM
TRYING -- YOU HEARD JOHN
BOEHNER TALKING ABOUT
COMPROMISE, AND YOU SAW
THESE ALTERNATIVES ROLLING
OUT OVER THE LAST 24
HOURS, IS ANYBODY
MISCALCULATING IN THE
POLITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
THEY'RE MAKING IN THIS
KIND OF STANDOFF?
>> I THINK IT IS POSSIBLE
THE WHITE HOUSE CAN
OVERPLAY THEIR HAND.
FOR INSTANCE, WE HAD ERIC
CANTOR, THE HOUSE MAJORITY
LEADER, CALL ON REPORTERS
TO SHOW THE CONFEREES
LINED UP ON ONE SIDE, AND
EMPTY CHAIRS ON THE OTHER
SIGH BECAUSE SENATE
REPUBLICANS HAVEN'T
AGREED --
>> SENATE DEMOCRATS --
>> SENATE DEMOCRATS
HAVEN'T AGREED TO JOIN A
CONFERENCE.
AND THE PRESIDENT SAID HE
IS GOING TO VETO SOME OF
THE SMALL SPENDING BILLS
FOR CERTAIN PARTS OF THE
GOVERNMENT.
I THINK THE WHITE HOUSE
NEEDS TO BE CAREFUL TO
EXPLAIN THEIR EFFORTS.
THESE APPARENT OLIVE
BRANCHES ARE NOT REALLY
POLITICAL TRAPS.
>> WHICH IS WHY THE
PRESIDENT LIVES IN THE
ROSE GARDEN TODAY.
17 YEARS SINCE THE LAST
TIME WE'VE BEEN IN THIS
PLACE, AND WE'RE EXACTLY
ALMOST IDENTICAL WITH THE
AGREEMENTS.
WHAT HAS CHANGED?
>> I THINK THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY HAS CHANGED.
I THINK OUR POLITICS HAVE
CHANGED.
THE PARTIES HAVE
DETERIORATED IN THEIR
STRENGTH.
THEY DECENTRALIZED.
WE HAVE THESE NEW SUPER
PACKS AND OUTSIDE
ORGANIZATIONS AND THE TEA
PARTY, AND THE LIBERTARIAN
MOVEMENT AND THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, WHICH IS
VERY DIFFERENT.
I THINK THESE REPUBLICANS
NOW ARE VERY SCARED.
THIS SENATE CLASS OF --
THAT IS UP NOW IS THE SAME
SENATE CLASS THAT WAS UP
RIGHT AFTER THE '95/'96
SHUTDOWN.
THE SAME PEOPLE.
MARY LANDRO WAS UP THEN
AND SHE IS UP NOW.
I LOOKED AT THE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS WHO WERE UP THEN,
MANY DIDN'T RUN FOR
ELECTION, BUT THE NAMES
ARE JOHN WARNER, MARK
HATFIELD, IT WAS AERY
DIFFERENT REPUBLICAN
PARTY.
I THINK PARTICULARLY THE
HOUSE REPUBLICANS ARE MORE
CONFRONTATIONAL, AND LESS
COMPRISING THAN THE
REPUBLICAN CLASS OF '94.
>> ARE YOU SURPRISED,
SUSAN, THERE IS NO MIDDLE
GROUND?
EVEN WHEN WE GO THROUGH
THESE ROUTINES, EVERYONE
KNOWS WHERE IT IS GOING TO
END?
>> THAT'S WHAT I THINK IS
DIFFERENT FROM THE 17
YEARS AGO WHEN I WAS
COVERING THE SHUTDOWN AT
THE CLINTON WHITE HOUSE.
THEN IT WAS A DIFFERENT
POLITICAL LANDSCAPE.
AT THAT POINT, A THIRD OF
HOUSE REPUBLICANS IN THE
1995 SHUTDOWN WERE IN
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICTS
THAT HAD BEEN WON BY BILL
CLINTON.
YOU'RE NOW 7% OF HOUSE
REPUBLICANS THAT ARE IN
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICTS
THAT WERE WON BY BARACK
OBAMA.
THAT SHOWS YOU HOW MUCH
MORE PARTISAN THE WHOLE
COUNTRY IS.
A LOT OF THE BRIDGES THAT
USED TO BE USED TO REACH A
DEAL WHEN YOU NEEDED TO
REACH A COMPROMISE HAVE
BEEN BLOWN UP IN THE PAST
17 YEARS.
AND THERE IS ONE OTHER
DIFFERENCE WIN 17 YEARS
AGO, AND THAT IS WE HAVE
THIS DEBT CEILING DEBATE
CUTTINCOMING UP IN TWO WEEKS
COMING UP.
IF IT ROLLS INTO A
CONFRONTATION OVER THE
DEBT CEILING, THAT HAS
MUCH GREATER CONSEQUENCES
FOR THE STATE OF THE U.S.
ECONOMY.
>> ISN'T THAT WHAT BOTH
SIDES ARE EYEING, IN TWO
WEEKS THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO HAVE THIS FIGHT
ALL OVER AGAIN?
>> I THINK SO.
MOST OF US THINK WE'RE IN
THIS EXTENDED PERIOD OF A
FIGHT.
IT IS A MATRTE OF WHO
BLINKS LAST, THE LAST WILL
BE A COUPLE OF WEEKS FROM
NOW OR LATER.
>> DOES THE PUBLIC OPINION
PLAY A ROLE IN WHO BLINKS?
THAT IS -- MAYBE IT IS A
LITTLE SOON, 24 HOURS TO
SAY, BUT DO PEOPLE LOOK AT
THIS AND SAY AS WE SAW IN
OUR OPENNG TIAPE, YOU KNOW
WHAT, I'M EXHAUSTED?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YOU DO SEE SOME HOUSE
REPUBLICANS SAYING WE
OUGHT TO HAVE A VOTE ON
WHAT WE CALL A CLEAN
SLATE, A CONTINUING
RESOLUTION WITHOUT ANY
STRINGS ATTACHED RELATED
TO OBAMACARE.
IF REPUBLICANS ARE GETTING
HAMMERED IN PUBLIC OPINION
POLLS, IT SEEMS TO ME THAT
WOULD BE A FACTOR THAT
HOUSE REPUBLICANS MIGHT
LOOK AT AND SAY MAYBE WE
SHOULD FOLD.
>> AND EVEN SOME OF THE
PEACE SOLUTIONS THAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD
KEEP, KEEPING THE PARKS
OPEN, THAT WOULD BE IN
RESPONSE TO SOME OF THE
FEEDBACK?
>> I THINK SO.
THEY WANT TO PUT THE WHITE
HOUSE ON THE DEFENSIVE,
AND HARRY REID AND THE
SENATE DEMOCRATS ON THE
DEFENSIVE.
I'M AMUSED BY THESE POLLS.
THE WORST TIME TO TAKE A
SURVEY IS IN THE MIDDLE OF
A CATACLYSMIC EVENT.
I THINK THE REPUBLICANS
ARE GOING TO WANT TO WAIT
AND SEE.
>> THIS FIGHT IS NOT
REALLY ABOUT THE BUDGET,
AS WE'VE SEEN UNFOLD.
IT IS ABOUT A LOT OF
THINGS.
ONE OF THE THINGS IT IS
ABOUT IS THE A AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
IS THERE ANY WIGGLE ROOM
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE THAT
WILL ALLOW THEM TO GIVE
SOMETHING TO THE
REPUBLICANS ON THAT?
>> INTERESTING SENATOR
DURBIN SUGGESTED THIS
MORNING MAYBE THERE WAS.
IT IS HARD TO IMAGINE --
IT IS EASIER TO IMAGINE
GETTING A DEAL IF YOU'RE
WILLING TO GIVE JUST A
LITTLE SOMETHING, EVEN IF
IT IS A FIG LEAF.
HE SAID THEY MAY BE
WILLING TO DO SOMETHING ON
THE TAX ON MEDICAL
DEVICES.
>> BUT NOT WITH A GUN HEAD?
>> BUT WHEN IT COMES TO
THE CORE OF THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, ABSOLUTELY NOT.
WE WILL BE SHUT DOWN FROM
NOW UNTIL NEXT YEAR IF
THAT'S THE PRICE.
>> I THINK BOTH HOUSES
STAKED OUT A VERY EXTREME
POSITION, PORTRAYING THE
OTHER SIDE AS FULL OF ILL
WILL AND ANGER AND
UNCOMPROMISING.
WE WILL HAVE A DEAL, BUT
SOMEBODY IS GOING TO HAVE
TO GIVE.
>> WHATEVER HAPPENED TO
BREAKING THE FEVER OF
PARTISANSHIP.
IT DOESN'T SEEM THAT HAS
HAPPENED.
>> Ifill: THE SHUTDOWN BEGAN ON
THE VERY SAME DAY THAT ONE OF
THE MOST CRITICAL PIECES OF THE
HEALTHCARE LAW BEGAN TO TAKE
EFFECT.
JUDY PICKS THE STORY BACK UP
FROM THERE.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS THE DAY
THAT PEOPLE CAN START ENROLLING
FOR HEALTH INSURANCE THROUGH NEW
ONLINE MARKETPLACES KNOWN AS
EXCHANGES.
IN ALL, THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
IS RUNNING OR PARTNERING WITH
LOCAL OFFICIALS TO RUN THESE IN
36 STATES.
THE REMAINDER OF STATES AND THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ARE
OPERATING THEIR OWN EXCHANGES.
PEOPLE WILL BE ABLE TO ENROLL
THROUGH MARCH, BUT THERE WERE
PLENTY OF GLITCHES ON DAONE.Y
WHEN MANY WENT TO THE FEDERAL
WEB SITE, healthcare.gov, TO
LEARN MORE, THEY OFTEN SAW A
SCREEN THAT READ, "PLEASE WAIT,
WE HAVE A LOT OF VISITORS ON THE
SITE RIGHT NOW."
SOME STATE-RUN SITES HAD SIMILAR
PROBLEMS, TOO.
DURING HIS APPEARANCE IN THE
ROSE GARDEN, THE PRESIDENT SAID
HEAVY DEMAND HAD SOMETHING TO DO
WITH THAT
>> President Obama: WE
FOUND OUT THAT THERE HAVE
BEEN TIMES THIS MORNING
WHERE THE SITE HAS BEEN
RUNNING MORE SLOWLY THAN
IT NORMALLY WILL.
THE REASON IS BECAUSE MORE
THAN ONE MILLION PEOPLE
VISITED HEALTH .GOV BEFORE
THERE WERE FIVE TIMES MORE
USERS IN THE MARKETPLACE
THIS MORNING THAN HAVE
EVER BEEN ON MEDICARE.GOV
AT ONE TIME.
THAT GIVES YOU A SENSE OF
HOW IMPORTANT THIS IS TO
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
AND THAT'S A GOOD THING.
AND WE'RE GOING TO BE
SPEEDING THINGS UP IN THE
NEXT FEW HOURS TO HANDLE
ALL OF THIS DEMAND THAT
EXCEEDS ANYTHING THAT WE
HAD EXPECTED.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK SHORTLY AT THESE PROBLEMS
AND WHAT HAPPENS NEXT.
BUT FIRST, WE STEP BACK FOR A
FULLER EXPLANATION OF HOW THE
EXCHANGES SHOULD WORK.
ONE STATE HAS ALREADY BEEN
RUNNING ITS OWN INSURANCE
MARKETPLACE FOR YEARS, AND IN
MANY WAYS IT HAS SERVED AS A
MODEL FOR THE NEW ONES.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN REPORTS FROM
MASSACHUSETTS.
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> IN 1997, I WAS DIAGNOSED WITH
BREAST CANCER AFTER A ROUTINE
MAMMOGRAM.
>> Reporter: BOSTON FILMMAKER
DEB DORSEY, WHOSE HEALTH
NIGHTMARE BECAME A DOCUMENTARY.
>> I WENT THROUGH FOUR ROUNDS OF
CHEMOTHERAPY AND SIX WEEKS OF
RADIATION.
THEN IT TURNED OUT THAT THE
ADRIAMYCIN THAT THEY HAD GIVEN
ME WITH THE CHEMOTHERAPY HAD
DONE DAMAGE TO MY HEART, AND I
WENT INTO HEART FAILURE.
THEY SAID, "WE THINK YOU'RE A
CANDIDATE FOR A PACEMAKER."
>> Reporter: DORSEY HAD HEALTH
INSURANCE THROUGH E CTHOMPANY
SHE OWNED WITH HER FILMMAKER
HUSBAND, WHO FREELANCES FOR THE
NEWSHOUR.
BUT WHEN THE BUSINESS TANKED,
DORSEY'S POR CRIONDITIONS PUT
HER IN PERIL.
>> ME WITHOUT INSURANCE WOULD
HAVE BEEN A DISASTER BECAUSE
NOBODY WOULD HAVE INSURED ME.
>> Reporter: DISASTER DIDN'T
HAPPEN.
DORSEY COULD BUY INSURANCE
BECAUSE OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
HEALTH LAW SIGNED BY REPUBLICAN
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY IN 2006 AND
ITS ONLINE MARKETPLACE, THE
HEALTH CONNECTOR.
SOME QUARTER OF A MILLION PEOPLE
NOW GET INSURANCE FROM NINE
PRIVATE COMPANIES.
IT'S THE MODEL FOR THE STATE
EXCHANGES BEING SET UP UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
SO, WHAT IS THE CONNECTOR, AND
HOW HAS IT WORKED?
>> GOOD AFTERNOON.
THANK YOU FOR CALLING THE HEALTH
CONNECTOR.
>> Reporter: AT A BOSTON CALL
CENTER WHICH FIELDS CONSUMER
QUESTIONS, THE CONNECTOR'S
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, JEAN YANG,
DESCRIBED IT THIS WAY.
>> THE EXPERIENCE THAT YOU GET
IS NOT GOING TO BE THAT
DIFFERENT FROM WHEN YOU
TYPICALLY GO TO AN E-COMMERCE
WEB SITE WHERE CONSUMERS CAN
EASILY BROWSE, COMPARE OPTIONS
AND COMPLETE A TRANSACTION.
AND THEN, THAT FOSTERS
COMPETITION, SO EVENTUALLY IT
LEADS TO A MORE EFFICIENT
MARKET.
>> YOU CAN LOOK FOR HEALTH
INSURANCE FOR INDIVIDUALS AND
FAMILIES, EMPLOYERS WHO WANT TO
SHOP FOR THEIR BUSINESSES AND
FOR BROKERS.
>> Reporter: M.I.T. ECONOMIST
JON GRUBER, WHO HELPED CRAFT THE
CONNECTOR, GAVE US A
WALKTHROUGH.
SO, LET'S SAY IT'S JUST YOU AS
AN INDIVIDUAL.
>> OKAY, THEN IT'S GOING TO ASK
FOR MY INCOME, BECAUSE IF I'M
LOWER INCOME, I QUALIFY FOR
SPECIAL SUBSIDIES.
I'M NOT, SO I'M GOING TO
CONTINUE.
>> Reporter: THEN YOU TYPE IN
YOUR ZIP CODE AND YOUR BIRTHDAY.
>> OKAY, NOW IT'S RETRIEVING ALL
MY AVAILABLE PLANS AND RATES.
>> Reporter: THE CONNECTOR HAS
DIFFERENT LEVELS OF CHOICES.
THAT'LL BE THE CASE IN OTHER
STATES, TOO.
BRONZE HAS THE LOWEST PREMIUMS
OR UP-FRONT COSTS BUT HIGHER
OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS WHEN YOU
RECEIVE CARE.
SILVER AND GOLD ARE NEXT, AND
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT ADDS
PLATINUM WHICH HAS THE MOST
EXPENSIVE PREMIUMS BUT LOWEST
OUT-OF-POCKET.
>> A PLATINUM PLAN WHICH IS THE
HIGHEST TIER, THE INSURANCE PLAN
WILL BE COVERING 90% OF THE COST
WHERE A CONSUMER WILL BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR 10%.
A GOLD PLAN IS 80% COST ASSUMED
BY THE INSURANCE COMPANY, AND A
SILVER IS 70% AND A BRONZE IS
60%.
>> Reporter: WITHIN THE METALLIC
TIERS, INSURANCE COMPANIES OFFER
COMPETING PLANS.
THE BENEFITS ARE THE SAME, BUT
PRICES VARY BASED IN PART ON
WHICH DOCTORS AND HOSPITALS
PARTICIPATE.
BUT IT WASN'T ALWAYS THIS
SIMPLE.
>> WE STARTED WITH VERY MUCH A
ANY-WILLING-PLAN MODEL.
>> Reporter: SO, I JUST... I
WOULD HAVE GONE TO THE WEB SITE
AND I WOULD'VE JUST SEEN PLAN
AFTER PLAN AFTER PLAN AFTER
PLAN?
>> CORRECT, YES.
AND IT VERY QUICKLY BECAME TOO
CONFUSING.
SO, WE STANDARDIZED OUR PRODUCT
DESIGN.
YOU KNOW WHAT IS COVERED, WHAT
IS NOT COVERED; HOW MUCH IS
COVERED IF I GO SEE A DOCTOR; IF
I GO TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM, HOW
MUCH AM I SUPPOSED TO PAY?
IT'S THE SAME.
>> Reporter: BY CONTRAST, THE
NEW FEDERALLY-RUN EXCHANGES WILL
NOT REQUIRE THAT PLANS HAVE THE
SAME FEATURES, AT LEAST NOT AT
FIRST.
>> HI, PHOEBE.
>> Reporter: WE INTERVIEWED
M.I.T.'S GRUBER AT HIS HOMINE
LEXINGTON, MASSACHUSETTS, WHICH
HE SHARES WITH MORE THAN A FEW
FEATHERED FRIENDS-- AMONG THEM,
PHOEBE, THE COCKATOO.
>> PHOEBE IS GOING TO LIVE ABOUT
100 YEARS.
>> Reporter: WE MENTION PHOEBE
AS A REMINDER THAT LONG LIFE IS
A KEY ECONOMIC GOOD.
BUT IT TENDS TO REQUIRE HEALTH
CARE, WHICH, FOR MOST OF US
REQUIRES INSURANCE.
SO, FROM HIS ECONOMICS PERCH,
GRUBER'S CONNECTOR WAS FIRST AND
FOREMOST ABOUT INSURING THE
UNINSURED.
>> HOWEVER, YOU CANT JUST DO
THAT IN A VACUUM BECAUSE IF YOU
TELL INSURERS YOU HAVE TO INSURE
EVERYONE AT THE SAME PRICE, BUT
PEOPLE CAN WAIT TILL THEYRE SICK
TO BUY INSURANCE, THEYLL LOSE
MONEY AND GET OUT OF T
BUSINESS.
>> Reporter: INSURING EVERYONE,
THEREFORE, IS JUST THE FIRST LEG
OF A THREE-LEGGED STOOL.
>> SO YOU CANT GET THE FIRST
GOAL WITHOUT A SECOND LEG OF THE
STOOL AND THATS THE INDIVIDUAL
MANDATE.
INDIVIDUALS, YOU MAKE SURE YOU
BUY HEALTH INSURANCE SICK OR
HEALTHY, BUT THEN THE THIRD LEG
OF THE STOOL IS THE GOVERNMENT
NEEDS TO MAKE THIS SYSTEM WORK
BY MAKING INSURANCE AFFORDABLE.
>> Reporter: WHILE SOME OF THE
UNINSURED ARE HEALTHY AND YOUNG,
SOME ARE POOR AND SICK, YET CANT
AFFORD INSURANCE.
SO, THE CONNECTOR SUBSIDIZES
THEM BASED ON INCOME.
TODAY, 97% OF RESIDENTS NOW HAVE
INSURANCE, THE HIGHEST RATE IN
THE COUNTRY.
BUT THAT'S CAUSED OTHER
PROBLEMS.
>> WHO'S GOING TO TAKE CARE OF
THESE PATIENTS?
>> Reporter: RICHARD DUPEE, AN
INTERNIST AND CHIEF OF
GERIATRICS AT TUFTS MEDICAL
CENTER.
>> WE'RE REALLY COVERING MORE OF
THE POPULATION, WE DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH PHYSICIANS TO DO IT.
SO, AS A RESULT, PATIENTS ARE
ENDING UP IN CLINICS AND WAITING
TO BE SEEN.
MANY ARE GOING TO THE EMERGENCY
ROOM WITH THEIR INSURANCE CARD,
BUT WAITING TO BE SEEN.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S ANOTHER
PROBLEM.
REFORM HASN'T REDUCED EXPENSIVE
E.R. VISITS AS MUCH AS HOPED
SINCE MANY NEWLY-INSURED NOW GO
THERE FOR CARE.
>> THE REASON FOR THAT IS THAT
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH PRIMARY
CARE DOCTORS, AND WE ALSO HAVE A
LOT OF PHYSICIANS WHO FEEL THAT
THE REIMBURSEMENT STRUCTURE FOR
PATIENTS WHO ARE IN THE
CONNECTOR IS NOT SUFFICIENT TO
BE ABLE TO HELP THEM SUPPORT
THEIR PRACTICE OVERHEAD.
>> Reporter: ITS JUST THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO GET PAID ENOUGH
MONEY.
IS INADEQUATE.
>> YEAH, THEY FEEL THE PAYMENT
>> Reporter: DUPEE'S 6000-
IS INADEQUATE.
PATIENT PRACTICE IS BIG ENOUGH
>> Reporter: DUPEE'S 6000-
TO ABSORB NEW SUBSIDIZED
PATIENT PRACTICE IS BIG ENOUGH
PATIENTS EVEN IF HE'S PAID LESS
TO ABSORB NEW SUBSIDIZED
TO SEE THEM.
PATIENTS EVEN IF HE'S PAID LESS
PLUS, HE'S HELPING PEOPLE.
TO SEE THEM.
>> I'VE SEEN A TON OF NEW
PLUS, HE'S HELPING PEOPLE.
PATIENTS, ALL OF WHOM WERE
>> I'VE SEEN A TON OF NEW
PRETTY SICK OR WERE GOING TO BE
PATIENTS, ALL OF WHOM WERE
SICK, AND NOW THEY'RE NOT.
PRETTY SICK OR WERE GOING TO BE
FOR EXAMPLE, THEY COME IN AND
SICK, AND NOW THEY'RE NOT.
THEY GET THEIR PHYSICAL AND
FOR EXAMPLE, THEY COME IN AND
THEY'D FIND OUT THEIR
THEY GET THEIR PHYSICAL AND
CHOLESTEROL'S OVER 300 AND THEY
THEY'D FIND OUT THEIR
NEVER KNEW THAT.
CHOLESTEROL'S OVER 300 AND THEY
THEIR BLOOD PRESSURES 160/100,
NEVER KNEW THAT.
THEY NEVER KNEW THAT.
THEIR BLOOD PRESSURES 160/100,
AND NOW ITS ALL CONTROLLED.
THEY NEVER KNEW THAT.
>> Reporter: BUT DESPITE REFORM,
AND NOW ITS ALL CONTROLLED.
COSTS CONTINUE TO CLIMB IN
>> Reporter: BUT DESPITE REFORM,
MASSACHUSETTS, WHICH STILL
COSTS CONTINUE TO CLIMB IN
SPENDS MORE ON HEALTH CARE THAN
MASSACHUSETTS, WHICH STILL
ANY STATE IN THE COUNTRY.
SPENDS MORE ON HEALTH CARE THAN
SO, WHAT DOES ALL THIS IMPLY FOR
ANY STATE IN THE COUNTRY.
THE SUCCESS OF EXCHANGES IN
SO, WHAT DOES ALL THIS IMPLY FOR
OTHER STATES?
THE SUCCESS OF EXCHANGES IN
WE ASKED THE BIRD MAN OF
OTHER STATES?
LEXINGTON.
WE ASKED THE BIRD MAN OF
>> THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THIS LAW
LEXINGTON.
DEPENDS ON BROAD PARTICIPATION.
>> THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THIS LAW
THAT REQUIRES OUTREACH AND
DEPENDS ON BROAD PARTICIPATION.
SOCIAL AGREEMENT TO BE PART OF
THAT REQUIRES OUTREACH AND
THIS NEW SOCIAL CONTRACT WHERE
SOCIAL AGREEMENT TO BE PART OF
EVERYONE GETS HEALTH INSURANCE.
THIS NEW SOCIAL CONTRACT WHERE
THAT WORKED IN MASSACHUSETTS.
EVERYONE GETS HEALTH INSURANCE.
WE RAN ADS BETWEEN THE FIRST AND
THAT WORKED IN MASSACHUSETTS.
SECOND INNING OF EVERY RED SOX
WE RAN ADS BETWEEN THE FIRST AND
GAME IN THE SUMMER OF 2007.
SECOND INNING OF EVERY RED SOX
>> THE STATE'S HEALTH CONNECTOR
GAME IN THE SUMMER OF 2007.
HAS AFFORDABLE PLANS, LOTS TO
>> THE STATE'S HEALTH CONNECTOR
CHOOSE FROM AND EASY SIGNUP.
HAS AFFORDABLE PLANS, LOTS TO
>> NO ONE RAN ADS SAYING DON'T
CHOOSE FROM AND EASY SIGNUP.
GET HEALTH INSURANCE,
>> NO ONE RAN ADS SAYING DON'T
THERE WERE NO PROTESTS.
GET HEALTH INSURANCE,
THAT MAY NOT BE TRUE IN SOME OF
THERE WERE NO PROTESTS.
THESE STATES.
THAT MAY NOT BE TRUE IN SOME OF
>> Reporter: INDEED, IT ALREADY
THESE STATES.
ISN'T, AS THIS AD FROM A GROUP
>> Reporter: INDEED, IT ALREADY
LLECAD GENERATION OPPORTUNITY
ISN'T, AS THIS AD FROM A GROUP
MAKES CLEAR.
LLECAD GENERATION OPPORTUNITY
>> IF THEY CONVINCE HEALTHY
MAKES CLEAR.
PEOPLE TO STAY OUT OF THE POOL,
>> IF THEY CONVINCE HEALTHY
THAT RAISES RATES FOR EVERYONE
PEOPLE TO STAY OUT OF THE POOL,
ELSEND  AMAKES THE LAW LESS
THAT RAISES RATES FOR EVERYONE
SUCCESSFUL.
ELSEND  AMAKES THE LAW LESS
>> Reporter: ON THE OTHER HAND,
SUCCESSFUL.
SOME 24 MILLION PEOPLE LIKE DEB
>> Reporter: ON THE OTHER HAND,
DORSEY ARE EXPECTED TO GET
SOME 24 MILLION PEOPLE LIKE DEB
INSURANCE THROUGH AN EXCHANGE
DORSEY ARE EXPECTED TO GET
OVER THE NEXT TWO YEARS.
INSURANCE THROUGH AN EXCHANGE
>> I HAVE TO HAVE INSURANCE.
OVER THE NEXT TWO YEARS.
I HAVE A PACEMAKER.
>> I HAVE TO HAVE INSURANCE.
I HAVE TO SEE MY ONCOLOGIST ONCE
I HAVE A PACEMAKER.
A YEAR.
I HAVE TO SEE MY ONCOLOGIST ONCE
I HAVE MEDICATION THAT IM ON
A YEAR.
THAT I HAVE AND ITS EXPENSIVE,
I HAVE MEDICATION THAT IM ON
IT CAN BE VERY, VERY EXPENSIVE
THAT I HAVE AND ITS EXPENSIVE,
>> Reporter: BUT AS MORE PEOPLE
IT CAN BE VERY, VERY EXPENSIVE
REQUIRING EXPENSIVE CARE SIGN
>> Reporter: BUT AS MORE PEOPLE
UP, THE SYSTEM'S SUCCESS WILL
REQUIRING EXPENSIVE CARE SIGN
DEPEND ON GETTING THE YOUNG AND
UP, THE SYSTEM'S SUCCESS WILL
HEALTHY TO SIGN UP, TOO.
DEPEND ON GETTING THE YOUNG AND
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOT CLEAR YET
HEALTHY TO SIGN UP, TOO.
JUST HOW MANY PEOPLE TRIED TO
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOT CLEAR YET
SIGN UP ON THE VARIOUS EXCHANGES
JUST HOW MANY PEOPLE TRIED TO
AROUND THE COUNTRY TODAY, BUT WE
SIGN UP ON THE VARIOUS EXCHANGES
LOOK AT WHAT WE DO KNOW SO FAR
AROUND THE COUNTRY TODAY, BUT WE
WITH TWO REPORTERS WHO FOLLOWED
LOOK AT WHAT WE DO KNOW SO FAR
THIS STORY EXTENSIVELY: JULIE
WITH TWO REPORTERS WHO FOLLOWED
ROVNER OF N.P.R. AND LOUISE
THIS STORY EXTENSIVELY: JULIE
RADNOVSKY OF THE "WALL STREET
ROVNER OF N.P.R. AND LOUISE
JOURNAL."
RADNOVSKY OF THE "WALL STREET
>> WELCOME BACK TO THE
JOURNAL."
"NEWSHOUR" TO BOTH OF YOU.
>> WELCOME BACK TO THE
WITHOUT TALKING ABOUT
"NEWSHOUR" TO BOTH OF YOU.
BIRDS, AND IT IS GREAT TO
WITHOUT TALKING ABOUT
HEAR THE ECONOMIST WITH
BIRDS, AND IT IS GREAT TO
THE BIRDS IN THE
HEAR THE ECONOMIST WITH
BACKGROUND, BUT HOW DID IT
THE BIRDS IN THE
GO TODAY IN GENERAL?
BACKGROUND, BUT HOW DID IT
JULIE?
GO TODAY IN GENERAL?
WHAT WAS THE SENSE, OVER
JULIE?
ALL, OF HOW IT WENT?
WHAT WAS THE SENSE, OVER
>> CLASSIC GOOD NEWS/BAD
ALL, OF HOW IT WENT?
NEWS STORY.
>> CLASSIC GOOD NEWS/BAD
I THINK THE
NEWS STORY.
ADMINISTRATION'S BIGGEST
I THINK THE
FEAR IS THEY WOULD OPEN UP
ADMINISTRATION'S BIGGEST
AND NOBODY WOULD SHOW UP.
FEAR IS THEY WOULD OPEN UP
THAT'S DEFINITELY NOT WHAT
AND NOBODY WOULD SHOW UP.
HAPPENED.
THAT'S DEFINITELY NOT WHAT
LOTS AND LOTS OF PEOPLE
HAPPENED.
TRIED TO SHOW UP, AND IT
LOTS AND LOTS OF PEOPLE
OVERWHELMED THE CAPACITY
TRIED TO SHOW UP, AND IT
OF THE EXCHANGES TO DEAL
OVERWHELMED THE CAPACITY
WITH THEM, BOTH IN TERMS
OF THE EXCHANGES TO DEAL
OF THE WEBSITES AND THE
WITH THEM, BOTH IN TERMS
CALL CENTERS AND PLACES TO
OF THE WEBSITES AND THE
TRY TO GET HELD.
CALL CENTERS AND PLACES TO
IT WAS THE FEDERAL
TRY TO GET HELD.
EXCHANGES AND THE
IT WAS THE FEDERAL
STATE-RUN EXCHANGES, TOO.
EXCHANGES AND THE
EVERYBODY SEEMINGLY GOT
STATE-RUN EXCHANGES, TOO.
OVERWHELMED AND PEOPLE HAD
EVERYBODY SEEMINGLY GOT
TROUBLE GETTING ON AND IN.
OVERWHELMED AND PEOPLE HAD
>> LOUISE, THE
TROUBLE GETTING ON AND IN.
ADMINISTRATION WAS
>> LOUISE, THE
REPORTING OVER A MILLION
ADMINISTRATION WAS
PEOPLE TRIED TO LOOK AT
REPORTING OVER A MILLION
THE WEBSITE BEFORE 7:00.
PEOPLE TRIED TO LOOK AT
>> THEY SAID IT IS
THE WEBSITE BEFORE 7:00.
2.8 MILLION SINCE MIDNIGHT
>> THEY SAID IT IS
TRIED TO GO ON.
2.8 MILLION SINCE MIDNIGHT
WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY
TRIED TO GO ON.
WERE JOURNALISTS, TRYING
WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY
TO SEE IF EVERYTHING WAS
WERE JOURNALISTS, TRYING
RUNNING SMOOTHING, AS
TO SEE IF EVERYTHING WAS
OPPOSED TO PEOPLE WHO WERE
RUNNING SMOOTHING, AS
ACTUALLY TRYING TO SIGN UP
OPPOSED TO PEOPLE WHO WERE
FOR COVERAGE OR CONSIDER
ACTUALLY TRYING TO SIGN UP
THEIR OPTIONS.
FOR COVERAGE OR CONSIDER
THE ADMINISTRATION SAID
THEIR OPTIONS.
PREVIOUSLY THEY DIDN'T
THE ADMINISTRATION SAID
EXPECT THE SITES WOULD
PREVIOUSLY THEY DIDN'T
CRASH, AND THEY MENTIONED
EXPECT THE SITES WOULD
THEIR SUCCESS RUNNING THE
CRASH, AND THEY MENTIONED
MEDICARE WEBSITE.
THEIR SUCCESS RUNNING THE
THEY DIDN'T EXPECT
MEDICARE WEBSITE.
2.8 MILLION PEOPLE.
THEY DIDN'T EXPECT
THEY'VE HAD TO ADD
2.8 MILLION PEOPLE.
CAPACITY OVER THE DAY BUT
THEY'VE HAD TO ADD
THEY DIDN'T EXPECT IT THIS
CAPACITY OVER THE DAY BUT
MORNING.
THEY DIDN'T EXPECT IT THIS
>> TELL US ABOUT THE MAJOR
MORNING.
OF THE GLITCHES.
>> TELL US ABOUT THE MAJOR
HOW MUCH WAS JUST THE
OF THE GLITCHES.
CRUSH AND THE NUMBER OF
HOW MUCH WAS JUST THE
PEOPLE TRYING TO GET ON,
CRUSH AND THE NUMBER OF
JULIE?
PEOPLE TRYING TO GET ON,
>> WE HAD A CALL WITH
JULIE?
FEDERAL OFFICIALS LATE
>> WE HAD A CALL WITH
THIS AFTERNOON, AND WE
FEDERAL OFFICIALS LATE
ASKED THEM THAT QUESTION.
THIS AFTERNOON, AND WE
WE DIDN'T QUITE FIND OUT
ASKED THEM THAT QUESTION.
HOW MUCH WAS THEY WEREN'T
WE DIDN'T QUITE FIND OUT
READY AND HOW MUCH WAS THE
HOW MUCH WAS THEY WEREN'T
OVERWHELMING NATURE.
READY AND HOW MUCH WAS THE
THEY SAID IT WAS SEVEN
OVERWHELMING NATURE.
TIMES MORE THAN THE AMOUNT
THEY SAID IT WAS SEVEN
OF PEOPLE THEY EVER HAD ON
TIMES MORE THAN THE AMOUNT
THE MEDICARE WEBSITE.
OF PEOPLE THEY EVER HAD ON
IT WASN'T JUST THE FEDERAL
THE MEDICARE WEBSITE.
WEBSITE, BUT STATE
IT WASN'T JUST THE FEDERAL
WEBSITES, ALSO.
WEBSITE, BUT STATE
THERE WERE PARTICULAR
WEBSITES, ALSO.
PLACES WHERE PEOPLE GOT
THERE WERE PARTICULAR
HUNG UP.
PLACES WHERE PEOPLE GOT
YOU HAVE TO CREATE AN
HUNG UP.
ACCOUNT TO REALLY GET ON
YOU HAVE TO CREATE AN
TO SOME OF THESE WEBSITES
ACCOUNT TO REALLY GET ON
TO START LOOKING AND
TO SOME OF THESE WEBSITES
COMPARE SOME OF THE PLANS.
TO START LOOKING AND
A LOT OF PEOPLE GOT HUNG
COMPARE SOME OF THE PLANS.
UP AT THE SECURITY
A LOT OF PEOPLE GOT HUNG
QUESTION PLACE.
UP AT THE SECURITY
YOU HAVE TO CREATE AN
QUESTION PLACE.
ACCOUNT AND HAVE A
YOU HAVE TO CREATE AN
SECURITY QUESTION, LIKE
ACCOUNT AND HAVE A
WHAT WAS YOUR FIRST CAR OR
SECURITY QUESTION, LIKE
PET'S FIRST NAME.
WHAT WAS YOUR FIRST CAR OR
THEY COULDN'T TELL US WHY
PET'S FIRST NAME.
THE SECURITY QUESTIONS
THEY COULDN'T TELL US WHY
SEEMED TO STOP SO MANY
THE SECURITY QUESTIONS
PEOPLE.
SEEMED TO STOP SO MANY
WHETHER THAT WAS A
PEOPLE.
SOFTWARE PROBLEM OR THE
WHETHER THAT WAS A
NATURE OF TOO MANY PEOPLE
SOFTWARE PROBLEM OR THE
ON THE WEBSITE PROBLEM.
NATURE OF TOO MANY PEOPLE
THEY SAY BY LATER IN THE
ON THE WEBSITE PROBLEM.
DAY, IT DID SEEM THAT
THEY SAY BY LATER IN THE
SOME, NOT ALL, OF THE
DAY, IT DID SEEM THAT
PROBLEMS WERE BEING TAKEN
SOME, NOT ALL, OF THE
CARE OF.
PROBLEMS WERE BEING TAKEN
SOME OF IT SEEMS TO JUST
CARE OF.
HAVE BEEN CAPACITY.
SOME OF IT SEEMS TO JUST
AGAIN, A LOT OF PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN CAPACITY.
TRYING TO GET ON THIS
AGAIN, A LOT OF PEOPLE
FIRST DAY.
TRYING TO GET ON THIS
>> LOUISE, WHAT WOULD YOU
FIRST DAY.
ADD TO WHAT YOU CAN GLEAN
>> LOUISE, WHAT WOULD YOU
SO FAR TODAY.
ADD TO WHAT YOU CAN GLEAN
BOTH OF YOU HAVE BEEN
SO FAR TODAY.
TALKING TO PEOPLE AROUND
BOTH OF YOU HAVE BEEN
THE COUNTRY, IN TERMS OF
TALKING TO PEOPLE AROUND
THE GLITCHES AND THE
THE COUNTRY, IN TERMS OF
PROBLEMS PEOPLE WERE
THE GLITCHES AND THE
HAVING.
PROBLEMS PEOPLE WERE
>> IN ADDITION TO HEARING
HAVING.
IT IS DIFFICULTY LOADING
>> IN ADDITION TO HEARING
THE WEBSITE AND THE
IT IS DIFFICULTY LOADING
SECURITY QUESTIONS WHEN
THE WEBSITE AND THE
CREATING ACCOUNTS, WE HAVE
SECURITY QUESTIONS WHEN
BEEN HEARING NOT EVERYBODY
CREATING ACCOUNTS, WE HAVE
WHO WAS TRYING TO ENROLL
BEEN HEARING NOT EVERYBODY
HAS BEEN ABLE TO DO SO.
WHO WAS TRYING TO ENROLL
THE ADMINISTRATION SAYS
HAS BEEN ABLE TO DO SO.
THAT SOME PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
THE ADMINISTRATION SAYS
ABLE TO ENROLL.
THAT SOME PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
WE'RE SAYING MANY PEOPLE
ABLE TO ENROLL.
ARE NOT, BASED ON WHAT
WE'RE SAYING MANY PEOPLE
WE'RE HEARING FROM
ARE NOT, BASED ON WHAT
INSURERS.
WE'RE HEARING FROM
THAT SEEMS TO BE WITH THE
INSURERS.
DATA HUB ITSELF.
THAT SEEMS TO BE WITH THE
SOMETHING SEEMS TO BE
DATA HUB ITSELF.
GOING ON.
SOMETHING SEEMS TO BE
>> AND IT IS NOT CLEAR YET
GOING ON.
WHAT IT IS?
>> AND IT IS NOT CLEAR YET
>> IT IS NOT CLEAR YET HOW
WHAT IT IS?
MANY PEOPLE WERE NOT ABLE
>> IT IS NOT CLEAR YET HOW
TO COMPLETE THEIR
MANY PEOPLE WERE NOT ABLE
ENROLLMENTS.
TO COMPLETE THEIR
>> AND WE MADE THE
ENROLLMENTS.
DISTINCTION EARLIER THAT
>> AND WE MADE THE
SOME OF THE EXCHANGES ARE
DISTINCTION EARLIER THAT
RUN BY THE STATE, AND MANY
SOME OF THE EXCHANGES ARE
MORE ARE RUN BY THE
RUN BY THE STATE, AND MANY
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN
MORE ARE RUN BY THE
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN
STATES.
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
IS THERE A DIFFERENCE IN
STATES.
HOW THEY'RE RUNNING BASED
IS THERE A DIFFERENCE IN
ON WHO IS RUNNING THEM?
HOW THEY'RE RUNNING BASED
>> UM, THERE SEEMS TO BE.
ON WHO IS RUNNING THEM?
IN SOME STATES THEY'RE
>> UM, THERE SEEMS TO BE.
RUNNING BETTER.
IN SOME STATES THEY'RE
SOME SEEM TO BE HAVING NO
RUNNING BETTER.
PROBLEM WITH PEOPLE
SOME SEEM TO BE HAVING NO
GETTING ON AND CREATING
PROBLEM WITH PEOPLE
ACCOUNTS, BUT WHEN THEY
GETTING ON AND CREATING
DEGET TO THAT LAST
ACCOUNTS, BUT WHEN THEY
ENROLLMENT HURTLE, THEY'RE
DEGET TO THAT LAST
HAVING TROUBLE.
ENROLLMENT HURTLE, THEY'RE
NOT VERY MANY PEOPLE WERE
HAVING TROUBLE.
EXPECTED TO ENROLL TODAY.
NOT VERY MANY PEOPLE WERE
IT IS LIKE CHRISTMAS
EXPECTED TO ENROLL TODAY.
SHOPPING SEASON.
IT IS LIKE CHRISTMAS
THIS IS LIKE BLACK FRIDAY.
SHOPPING SEASON.
PEOPLE ARE GOING IN AND
THIS IS LIKE BLACK FRIDAY.
LOOKING AROUND AND SEEING
PEOPLE ARE GOING IN AND
WHAT IS THERE.
LOOKING AROUND AND SEEING
YOU DON'T HAVE TO ACTUALLY
WHAT IS THERE.
SIGN UP FOR COVERAGE THAT
YOU DON'T HAVE TO ACTUALLY
STARTS IN JANUARY UNTIL
SIGN UP FOR COVERAGE THAT
DECEMBER 15th.
STARTS IN JANUARY UNTIL
IT IS KIND OF SURPRISING
DECEMBER 15th.
THAT PEOPLE WOULD TRY TO
IT IS KIND OF SURPRISING
SIGN UP AND ENROLL TODAY.
THAT PEOPLE WOULD TRY TO
>> AND THERE IS NOT A
SIGN UP AND ENROLL TODAY.
PENALTY.
>> AND THERE IS NOT A
IF PEOPLE DON'T SIGN UP
PENALTY.
TODAY, OR EVEN IN THE
IF PEOPLE DON'T SIGN UP
MONTH OF OCTOBER, THEY'RE
TODAY, OR EVEN IN THE
NOT PENALIZED.
MONTH OF OCTOBER, THEY'RE
>> NO.
NOT PENALIZED.
JANUARY 1st IS THE DATE
>> NO.
WHEN YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO
JANUARY 1st IS THE DATE
HAVE COVERAGE AND WHILE
WHEN YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO
HAVE COVERAGE AND WHILE
HAVE EXEMPTIONS, YOU COULD
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO
GO A LITTLE PAST
HAVE EXEMPTIONS, YOU COULD
JANUARY 1st.
GO A LITTLE PAST
THE ADMINISTRATION IS
JANUARY 1st.
EXERCISE THE
THE ADMINISTRATION IS
DECEMBER 15th DATE FOR
EXERCISE THE
ENROLLMENT, BECAUSE BY
DECEMBER 15th DATE FOR
JANUARY 1st YOU COULD
ENROLLMENT, BECAUSE BY
HAVE A POLICY THAT COVERS
JANUARY 1st YOU COULD
YOU SUBSEQUENT TO THE
HAVE A POLICY THAT COVERS
REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE
YOU SUBSEQUENT TO THE
LAW.
REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE
>> AND, JULIE, WHAT KIND
LAW.
OF FOLKS WOULD HAVE BEEN
>> AND, JULIE, WHAT KIND
LOOKING TO SIGN UP TODAY.
OF FOLKS WOULD HAVE BEEN
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO DON'T
LOOKING TO SIGN UP TODAY.
HAVE INSURANCE RIGHT NOW,
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO DON'T
RIGHT?
HAVE INSURANCE RIGHT NOW,
>> PRETTY MUCH.
RIGHT?
THERE WERE SOME CONCERNS
>> PRETTY MUCH.
THAT IF THERE WERE A LOT
THERE WERE SOME CONCERNS
OF GLITCHES PEOPLE MIGHT
THAT IF THERE WERE A LOT
GET DISCOURAGED, BUT I
OF GLITCHES PEOPLE MIGHT
THINK THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
GET DISCOURAGED, BUT I
THERE ARE THE REALLY
THINK THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
MOTIVATED PEOPLE.
THERE ARE THE REALLY
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
MOTIVATED PEOPLE.
LIKELY TO COME BACK IF
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
THEY HAD PROBLEMS TODAY.
LIKELY TO COME BACK IF
THEY'RE GOING TO COME BACK
THEY HAD PROBLEMS TODAY.
TOMORROW OR NEXT WEEK OR
THEY'RE GOING TO COME BACK
NEXT MONTH.
TOMORROW OR NEXT WEEK OR
THESE AREN'T THE YOUNG
NEXT MONTH.
PEOPLE WHO ARE THINKING,
THESE AREN'T THE YOUNG
OH, I REALLY SHOULD GET
PEOPLE WHO ARE THINKING,
INSURANCE.
OH, I REALLY SHOULD GET
THEY'RE PROBABLY NOT GOING
INSURANCE.
TO SHOW UP UNTIL THEY'RE
THEY'RE PROBABLY NOT GOING
GETTING PUSHED BY THEIR
TO SHOW UP UNTIL THEY'RE
PARENTS.
GETTING PUSHED BY THEIR
THE CONCERNS ABOUT
PARENTS.
GLITCHES DISCOURAGING
THE CONCERNS ABOUT
PEOPLE ARE PROBABLY NOT A
GLITCHES DISCOURAGING
BIG ISSUE WITH THIS FIRST
PEOPLE ARE PROBABLY NOT A
DAY.
BIG ISSUE WITH THIS FIRST
THESE ARE THE VERY HIGHLY
DAY.
MOTIVATED PEOPLE, FRANKLY,
THESE ARE THE VERY HIGHLY
THAT INSURERS ARE WORRIED
MOTIVATED PEOPLE, FRANKLY,
ABOUT SIGNING UP.
THAT INSURERS ARE WORRIED
>> LOUISE, WHAT ARE YOU
ABOUT SIGNING UP.
PICKING UP ABOUT WHO IS
>> LOUISE, WHAT ARE YOU
TRYING TO SIGN UP?
PICKING UP ABOUT WHO IS
>> INTERESTLY, WE'RE
TRYING TO SIGN UP?
HEARING PEOPLE GOING TO
>> INTERESTLY, WE'RE
THE WEBSITES ARE PEOPLE
HEARING PEOPLE GOING TO
WHO HAVE MEDICARE OR
THE WEBSITES ARE PEOPLE
EMPLOYER INSURANCE WHO ARE
WHO HAVE MEDICARE OR
CURIOUS ABOUT THE EFFORT.
EMPLOYER INSURANCE WHO ARE
THE EXCHANGES ARE
CURIOUS ABOUT THE EFFORT.
PRIMARILY AIMED AT PEOPLE
THE EXCHANGES ARE
WHO DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO
PRIMARILY AIMED AT PEOPLE
INSURANCE.
WHO DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO
>> IF YOU ALREADY HAVE
INSURANCE.
COVERAGE AND YOU ARE
>> IF YOU ALREADY HAVE
LOOKING TO COMPARE --
COVERAGE AND YOU ARE
>> THEY'RE BROWSING,
LOOKING TO COMPARE --
MOSTLY, AND THEY'RE
>> THEY'RE BROWSING,
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO THE
MOSTLY, AND THEY'RE
SIGN-UP PROCESS, AND IF
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO THE
THEY WERE, THEY WOULD BE
SIGN-UP PROCESS, AND IF
TOLD AT VARIOUS POINTS,
THEY WERE, THEY WOULD BE
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE
TOLD AT VARIOUS POINTS,
ELIGIBLE FOR A SUBSIDY.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE
>> JULIE, JUST QUICKLY,
ELIGIBLE FOR A SUBSIDY.
WHAT IS THE ADMINISTRATION
>> JULIE, JUST QUICKLY,
LOOKING FOR?
WHAT IS THE ADMINISTRATION
HOW WILL THEY KNOW THIS IS
LOOKING FOR?
GOING SUCCESSFULLY OR NOT?
HOW WILL THEY KNOW THIS IS
I MEAN, WE KNOW THEY
GOING SUCCESSFULLY OR NOT?
WANTED TO SIGN UP SEVERAL
I MEAN, WE KNOW THEY
MILLION, AND WE HEARD
WANTED TO SIGN UP SEVERAL
PAUL'S POINT THAT THEY
MILLION, AND WE HEARD
REALLY WANT TO SIGN UP THE
PAUL'S POINT THAT THEY
YOUNGER, HEALTHY PEOPLE.
REALLY WANT TO SIGN UP THE
>> THEIR GOAL FOR THIS
YOUNGER, HEALTHY PEOPLE.
FIRST YEAR IS TO GET SEVEN
>> THEIR GOAL FOR THIS
MILLION PEOPLE SIGNED UP.
FIRST YEAR IS TO GET SEVEN
THEY WANT 2.8 MILLION OF
MILLION PEOPLE SIGNED UP.
THOSE TO BE YOUNGER,
THEY WANT 2.8 MILLION OF
HEALTHIER PEOPLE.
THOSE TO BE YOUNGER,
THERE WILL BE A LOT OF
HEALTHIER PEOPLE.
OUTREACH AND ADVERTISING.
THERE WILL BE A LOT OF
THEY'RE HOPING THAT THE
OUTREACH AND ADVERTISING.
PEOPLE WILL NOT BE
THEY'RE HOPING THAT THE
DISCOURAGED BY SOME OF THE
PEOPLE WILL NOT BE
NEGATIVE ADS.
DISCOURAGED BY SOME OF THE
PYTI.I THINK AS FRUSTRATED THEY
NEGATIVE ADS.
ARE BY THE TURNOUT,
PYTI.I THINK AS FRUSTRATED THEY
THEY'RE ALSO PLEASED.
ARE BY THE TURNOUT,
THERE IS STILL A LOT MORE
THEY'RE ALSO PLEASED.
PEOPLE THAN THEY EXPECTED
THERE IS STILL A LOT MORE
SHOWED UP TODAY.
PEOPLE THAN THEY EXPECTED
>> AND QUICKLY, LOUISE,
SHOWED UP TODAY.
THEY'RE GOING TO EXTRA
>> AND QUICKLY, LOUISE,
LENGTHS TO TRY TO APPEAL
THEY'RE GOING TO EXTRA
TO THESE YOUNG PEOPLE?
LENGTHS TO TRY TO APPEAL
>> THEY ARE.
TO THESE YOUNG PEOPLE?
THEY PUT A LOT OF STOCK
>> THEY ARE.
AROUND THANKSGIVING
THEY PUT A LOT OF STOCK
CONVERSATIONS WITH
AROUND THANKSGIVING
PARENTS, AND MAYBE AFTER
CONVERSATIONS WITH
PEOPLE HAVE COMPLETED
PARENTS, AND MAYBE AFTER
THEIR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING,
PEOPLE HAVE COMPLETED
TO TRY TO GET THEM TO SIGN
THEIR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING,
UP.
TO TRY TO GET THEM TO SIGN
WE'VE HEARD THIS AN AWFUL
UP.
LOT IN THE LAST COUPLE OF
WE'VE HEARD THIS AN AWFUL
DAYS, THIS IS A SIX MONTH
LOT IN THE LAST COUPLE OF
RUN, AND NOT A SPRINT.
DAYS, THIS IS A SIX MONTH
>> AND JULIE AND LOUISE,
RUN, AND NOT A SPRINT.
WE THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: LAST WEEK, AT THE
UNITED NATIONS, IRAN'S NEW
PRESIDENT MADE WAVES BY MOUNTING
A CHARM OFFENSIVE DIRECTED AT
THE WHITE HOUSE.
BUT TODAY, ISRAEL PUSHED BACK.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Warner: BENJAMIN NETAYAHU
TOOK THE STAGE AT THE U.N.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND ISSUED ONE
OF HIS STRONGEST DENUNCIATIONS
YET AGAINST IRAN AND ITS NUCLEAR
EFFORTS.
>> ISRAEL WILL NEVER ACQUIESCE
TO NUCLEAR ARMS IN THE HANDS OF
A ROGUE REGIME THAT REPEATEDLY
PROMISES TO WIPE US OFF THE MAP.
AGAINST SUCH A THREAT, ISRAEL
WILL HAVE NO CHOICE BUT TO
DEFEND ITSELF.
I WANT THERE TO BE NO CONFUSION
ON THIS POINT.
ISRAEL WILL NOT ALLOW IRAN TO
GET NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
IF ISRAEL IS FORCED TO STAND
ALONE, ISRAEL WILL STAND ALONE.
>> Warner: NETANYAHU BLUNTLY
DISMISSED RECENT OVERTURES BY
IRAN'S NEW PRESIDENT, HASSAN
ROUHANI, WHICH CULMINATED IN A
15-MINUTE PHONE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA LAST FRIDAY.
IN FACT, HE INSISTED, ROUHANI
REPRESENTS NO REAL CHANGE FROM
HIS HARD-LINE PREDECESSOR,
MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD.
>> WHEN IT COMES TO IRAN'S
NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAM, THE
ONLY DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THEM IS
THIS: AHMADINEJAD WAS A WOLF IN
WOLF'S CLOTHING; ROUHANI IS A
WOLF IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING.
I WISH I COULD BELIEVE ROUHANI,
BUT I DON'T BECAUSE FACTS ARE
STUBBORN THINGS.
AND THE FACTS ARE THAT IRAN'S
SAVAGE RECORD FLATLY CONTRADICTS
ROUHANI'S SOOTHING RHETORIC.
>> Warner: AND SO, THE PRIME
MINISTER WARNED, THE WORLD MUST
MAINTAIN UNRELENTING SANCTIONS
COUPLED WITH A MILITARY THREAT.
>> IF YOU WANT TO KNOCK OUT
IRAN'S NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAM
PEACEFULLY, DON'T LET UP THE
PRESSURE.
KEEP IT UP.
WE ALL WANT TO GIVE DIPLOMACY
WITH IRAN A CHANCE TO SUCCEED.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO IRAN, THE
GREATER THE PRESSURE, THE
GREATER THE CHANCE.
>> Warner: IT WAS THE SAME
MESSAGE, BUT MORE STRONGLY
WORDED, THAT NETANYAHU BROUGHT
TO HIS MEETING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE YESTERDAY.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA AGREED THAT
AS NEGOTIATIONS BEGIN, IRAN'S
ACTIONS ARE WHAT MATTERS TO THE
U.S.
>> GIVEN THE STATEMENTS AND
ACTIONS FROM THE IRANIAN REGIME
IN THE PAST, THE THREATS AGAINST
ISRAEL, THE ACTS AGAINST ISRAEL,
IT IS ABSOLUTELY CLEAR THAT
WORDS ARE NOT SUFFICIENT.
>> Warner: EVEN BEFORE
NETANYAHU'S SPEECH TODAY, IRAN
FIRED BACK WITH BROADSIDES OF
N.S OW
FOREIGN MINISTER MOHAMMAD JAVAD
ZARIF, WHO'S IN NEW YORK FOR THE
U.N. SESSION, FLATLY ACCUSED THE
ISRAELI LEADER OF LYING.
HE SPOKE TO IRANIAN STATE
TELEVISION.
>> ( translated ): THIS IS IN
HIS NATURE TO LIE.
A COUNTRY OR REGIME THAT OVER
THE PAST 22 YEARS HAS BEEN
SAYING IRAN WILL HAVE NUCLEAR
ARMS IN SIX MONTHS.
THE CONTINUATION OF THIS GAME,
IN FACT, IS BASED ON LYING,
DECEPTION, INCITEMENT AND
HARASSMENT.
>> Warner: AFTER TODAY'S SPEECH,
AN IRANIAN OFFICIAL REJECTED
ISRAEL'S ALLEGATIONS IT WAS
PURSING NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND
DENOUNCED NETANYAHU FOR SABER-
RATTLING.
WHAT MOST UPSET IRANIAN
OFFICIALS, HOWEVER, WAS NOT THE
DIATRIBES BY NETANYAHU, BUT THE
COMMENTS PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE IN
THEIR MEETING YESTERDAY, WHEN HE
REFERRED TO THE NEWLY ELECTED
IRANIAN GOVERNMENT AS A REGIME
AND SAID THAT MILITARY FORCE
REMAINED ON THE TABLE.
ZARIF, WHO WILL LEAD THE IRANIAN
NEGOTIATING TEAM, TWEETED LAST
NIGHT THAT HE FOUND THE
PRESIDENT'S TONE WAS MACHO AND
DISRESPECTFUL.
IN WASHINGTON TODAY, STATE
DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN JEN PSAKI
SAID THE PRESIDENT IS FULLY
COMMITTED TO EXPLORING THE
TALKS.
>> THE PRESIDENT MADE CLEAR JUST
YESTERDAY THAT WE WOULD KEEP
OPTIONS ON THE TABLE, BUT
CERTAINLY WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION
AND AN OPPORTUNITY TO SEE IF
THERE IS A PATH FORWARD, AND
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE PURSUING NOW.
>> Warner: WHAT SORT OF PATH
THERE IS WILL BECOME CLEARER
WHEN NUCLEAR TALKS RESUME IN
WEEKS IN GENEVA WITH ZARIF, THE
U.S. AND FIVE OTHER WORLD
POWERS.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH ALL
OF PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU'S
SPEECH AND THE SPEECHES OF OTHER
WORLD LEADERS AT THE UNITED
NATIONS ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Ifill: NEXT, WE TURN TO THE
UNPRECEDENTED FALLOUT FROM A
DEADLY STRIKE ON U.S. FORCES IN
SOUTHWESTERN AFGHANISTAN.
ON SEPTEMBER 14, 2012, 15
TALIBAN INSURGENTS MOUNTED A
SURPRISE ATTACK ON A HUGE
COALITION BASE IN HELMAND
PROVINCE.
TWO MARINES WERE KILLED, EIGHT
WOUNDED AND HALF A DOZEN FIGHTER
JETS WERE DESTROYED.
YESTERDAY, THE COMMANDANT OF THE
MARINE CORPS FIRED TWO GENERALS
IN CONNECTION WITH THE INCIDENT,
CHARLES GURGANUS AND GREGG
STURDEVENT.
IT WAS THE FIRST TIME SUCH HIGH
RANKING OFFICERS HAVE BEEN FIRED
FOR NEGLIGENCE SINCE THE VIETNAM
WAR, FORCED OUT FOR FAILING TO
PROVIDE ADEQUATE SECURITY.
FOR MORE ON THIS RARE
PUNISHMENT, WE TURN TO THE
REPORTER WHO FIRST UNCOVERED
DETAILS OF THE ATTACK LAST
APRIL, RAJIV CHANDRASEKARAN OF
THE "WASHINGTON POST."
>> THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US, RAJA.
TELL US WHAT HAPPENED AT
THE CAMP THAT NIGHT.
>> THIS WAS A REMARKABLE,
AUDACIOUS TALIBAN ASSAULT.
WHAT HAPPENED IS 15
INSURGENTS DRESSED IN U.S.
ARMY UNIFORMS LITERALLY
WALKED ON TO THIS
COALITION AIR BASE.
IT WAS A NATO AIR FIELD
THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
PROTECTED BY BOTH BRITISH
SOLDIERS, AS WELL AS U.S.
MARINES.
AND THEY MANAGED TO GET ON
THE FLIGHT LINE AND
DESTROY $200 MILLION WORTH
OF U.S. FIGHTER JETS AND
OTHER EQUIPMENT, THE
LARGEST SINGLE LOSS OF
ALLIED MATERIAL IN THE
12-YEAR LONG AFGHAN WAR.
AND THE ALLEGATION HERE
THAT HAS BEEN
SUBSTANTIATED BY THE
INVESTIGATION IS THAT AS
THE MARINES WERE DRAWING
DOWN THEIR FORCES FROM
THAT PART OF AFGHANISTAN,
THEY CUT BACK ON THE
NUMBER OF TROOPS TO PATROL
THE AREA AROUND THAT BASE,
AND SO THEY LEFT THE AREA
AROUND THAT BASE PRETTY
MUCH UNCOVERED.
>> WHO WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
COVERING THAT AREA AROUND
THE BASE?
>> A COMBINATION OF BOTH
BRITISH TROOPS, SOLDIERS
FROM THE NATION OF TONGA,
WHO WERE SUPPOSED TO BE
MANNING WATCH TOWERS, AND
THE WATCH TOWER CLOSEST TO
THE POINT OF ENTRY WAS
LEFT UNMANNED ON THE NIGHT
OF THE ATTACK.
THE AMERICAN MARINES WERE
SUPPOSED TO BE PATROLLING
THE AREAS AROUND IT, A
BROAD PERIMETER OF DESERT
WHERE THERE WERE A NUMBER
OF SORT OF EN CAMPMENTS
THAT HAD BEEN SET UP BY
POOR AFGHAN FARMERS.
AND THESE INSURGENTS
MANAGED TO GET IN THOSE
ENCAMPMENTS AND CIRCLE THE
BASE AND THEY WEREN'T
SCENE BECAUSE IN FACT THE
PATROLS WERE CUT BACK ON.
>> THEY ACTUALLY HAD MAPS
OF THE BASE?
>> SOPHISTICATED MAPS,
YES.
>> THE GENERAL TOLD YOU
AND THE "WASHINGTON POST,"
MAYBE THE TALIBAN GOT
LUCKY THAT NIGHT.
THAT WAS THE FIRST INITIAL
RESPONSE TO THIS.
DID THEY NOT DO THEIR OWN
INVESTIGATION?
>> THERE WAS NOT MUCH OF
AN INVESTIGATION DONE.
THE GENERAL ORDERED THE
INVESTIGATION ON THE BASE,
AND THE TOP COMMANDER
ORDERED A BRITISH
COMMANDER TO LOOK AT
SECURITY AND DO AN
INVESTIGATION FOR NATO.
YOU HAD ESSENTIALLY A
BRITISH GENERAL EVALUATING
THE ROLE OF BRITISH
TROOPS.
YOU HAD GENERAL GARGANUS
TO COME IN AND LOOK AT HIS
FORCES.
BUT YOU HAD NOBODY LOOKING
AT WHETHER GENERAL
GARGANUS AND HIS OFFICERS
WERE NEGLIGENT.
NO REPORT WAS DONE THAT
COULD HAVE HELD AMERICAN
SERVICE MEMBERS TO
ACCOUNT.
IT WASN'T UNTIL MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS STARTED TO ASK
QUESTIONS, OR SENIOR
OFFICIALS IN THE PENTAGON
SAID, HEY, WAIT, WHY
HASN'T THIS BEEN LOOKED AT
MOUR THOROUGHLY, AND AN
ARTICLE IN THE "WASHINGTON
POST" THAT HELPED LEAD
THEM TO ORDER THIS
INVESTIGATION.
>> LET'S GO BACK A MOMENT.
THIS WASN'T THE FIRST
INCIDENT AT THIS BASE.
>> CERTAINLY NOT.
THERE WAS AN INCIDENT
CALLED "THE BURNING MAN"
INCIDENT WHERE AN AFGHAN
TRANSLATOR WORKING FOR
BRITISH FORCES TRIED TO
DRIVE A VAN, AND RAMMED A
PLANE CARRYING LEON
PANETTA.
AND WHEN HE MISSED, HE
ALMOST RAN OVER GENERAL
GARGGANUS, WHO LATER ON
TOLD AN UNTRUTH TO
REPORTERS WHO WERE ON THE
PLANE WITH PANETTA, SAYING
THERE WAS NO REAL
INCIDENT.
THAT TRANSLATOR DROVE HIS
VAN INTO A DITCH AND TRIED
TO LIGHT HIMSELF ON FIRE.
THERE WAS ALREADY A
HEIGHTENED CONCERN ABOUT
ATTACKS ON THAT BASE.
>> SECURITY BASES IN
AFGHANISTAN A DIFFERENT
BALL OF WAX THAN OTHER
PLACES WE'VE BEEN IN PART
BECAUSE OF THE ONGOING
WITHDRAWAL OF THE TROOPS?
>> IT CERTAINLY
COMPLICATES THE MATTER.
AS TROOPS ARE BEING
REDUCED, AND YET BASES
REMAIN OPEN, THERE IS A
NEED TO PROTECT THOSE
FACILITIES AND PROTECT ALL
THOSE LINES OF
COMMUNICATION.
ALL OF THE ROADS THAT ARE
BEING USED TO PULL
EQUIPMENT OUT.
UNLIKE THE WITHDRAWAL IN
IRAQ, WHICH PROCEEDED ARE
THERE PEACEFULLY,
AFGHANISTAN IS STILL VERY
CONTESTED, AND VERY
HOSTILE IN AREAS WHERE
WE'RE REDUCING FORCES.
SO IT ADDS A WHOLE OTHER
COMPLICATION FOR AMERICAN
COMMANDERS, AND THEY WANT
TO BE FOCUSED ON TRAINING
THE AFGHAN ARMY,
CONDUCTING COMBAT
OPERATIONS, AT THE SAME
TIME THEY NEED JUST AS
MANY SOLDIERS IN MANY
CASES AS THEY DID A YEAR
OR TWO OR THREE AGO TO
PROTECT THEIR BASES.
>> SO WHAT IS IT ABOUT
THIS PARTICULAR OFFENSE
THAT BROUGHT SUCH A SEVERE
PUNISHMENT?
WE KNOW ONCE AN
INVESTIGATION FINALLY GOT
UNDER WAY, THEY MUST HAVE
DISCOVERED SOMETHING TO
LEAD TO THE FIRING OF TWO
GENERALS, SOMETHING SO
UNUSUAL.
>> WHAT THE
INVESTIGATION -- AND I'VE
READ AN UNCLASSIFIED COPY
OF IT -- FOUND WAS JUST A
SYSTEMIC PATTERN OF
FAILURE BY THESE TWO
GENERALS IN TERMS OF
ASSESSING THE THREAT,
TAKING IT SERIOUSLY, REC
RECITING THE NECESSARY
RESOURCES TO PROTECT THE
BASE, AND AN ARRANGEMENT
WITH COALITION FORCES FOR
WHO WAS TO PROTECT THE
COMPOUNDS.
SO THIS INVESTIGATION WAS
PRETTY HARD-HITTING,
PRETTY SCATHING.
AND YOU HAD THE COMMANDANT
OF THE MARINE CORPS
WANTING TO DEMONSTRATE HE
WAS GOING TO SEEK
ACCOUNTABILITY AT ALL
LEVELS OF THE SERVICE.
IT IS COMING DAYS AFTER
WHEN THE COMMANDANT HAS
TAKEN STEPS TO TRY TO
INCREASE DISCIPLINE IN THE
BARRACKS ON BASES FOR
JUNIOR OFFICERS.
AND THE MARINES HAVE FACED
THEIR SHARE OF
DISCIPLINARY CHARGES IN
AFGHANISTAN.
SOME MARINES HAVE BEEN
BROUGHT UP ON CHARGES FOR
URINATING ON THE CORPSE OF
DEAD TALIBAN.
AND YOU HAD THE COMMANDANT
SAYING, LOOK, I'M GOING TO
SEEK ACCOUNTABILITY AT ALL
LEVELS OF OF MY SERVICE.
>> THANKS FOROUR Y
REPORTING.
>> GOOD TO TALK TO YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
THE REMARKABLE CAREER OF AN
ENTERTAINMENT LEGEND.
ACTRESS RITA MORENO HAS PUT HER
LIFE STORY INTO A NEW BOOK.
RAY SUAREZ CAUGHT UP WITH HER
YESTERDAY.
>> Suarez: BORN ROSITA DOLORES
ALVERIO IN SMALL-TOWN PUERTO
RICO IN THE MIDST OF THE GREAT
DEPRESSION, MORENO HEADED TO
WORK AS AN ENTERTAINER AT 13 AND
WAS ON BROADWAY AND IN HOLLYWOOD
BEFORE SHE WAS 20.
SHE WAS AWARDED THE PRESIDENTIAL
MEDAL OF FREEDOM BY PRESIDENT
GEORGE W. BUSH IN 2004, AND THE
NATIONAL MEDAL OF THE ARTS BY
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS HAS
CALLED HER A LIVING LEGEND.
>> Suarez: SHE IS ONE OF THE FEW
PERFORMERS IN HISTORY TO WIN AN
EMMY, A GRAMMY, A TONY AND AN
OSCAR.
NOW, AFTER A LONG CAREER AND A
LONG LIFE, RITA MORENO CAN TAKE
THE LONG VIEW, AND SHE DOES THAT
IN HER NEW SELF-TITLED MEMOIR.
RITA MORENO, GREAT TO SEE YOU.
>> YOU, TOO, RAY!
>> Suarez: I SAT DOWN WITH
MORENO IN WASHINGTON.
SHE SAYS FOR TODAY'S ROSITAS,
BREAKING IN IS STILL HARD.
>> IT'S DIFFERENT.
IT'S DIFFERENT, AND IT'S BETTER.
BUT, YOU KNOW, I HAVE TO SAY--
AND I'M QUOTING RICARDO
MONTALBAN, WHO REALLY SAID IT
BEST A NUMBER OF YEARS AGO, BUT
IT'S STILL... IT'S STILL APT--
HE SAID, "THE DOOR IS AJAR, AND
IT'S A BIG, HEAVY DOOR, TOO.
SO, IF YOU'RE GOING TO LOOK FOR
OPPORTUNITIES, YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO HAVE SOME STRENGTH TO
PUSH THAT DOOR."
IT'S CERTAINLY BETTER, AND IT'S
WONDERFUL TO SEE MORE HISPANIC
NAMES ON THE PROFESSIONAL SCENE
FROM MY END, IN SHOW BUSINESS.
BUT I'M STILL WAITING TO SEE AN
ACTOR OR ACTRESS OF HISPANIC
DESCENT BEING OFFERED A ROLE
THAT IS WORTHY PERHAPS OF AN
OSCAR NOMINATION.
I'VE TALKED TO A LOT OF YOUNG
PEOPLE, AND I ALWAYS DO; IT'S A
PART OF MY MODUS VIVENDI.
AND THE ONE THING THEY ALWAYS
ASK IS, "WHY ARE YOU THE ONLY
ONE?"
AND I REALLY DON'T THINK IT'S
THAT COMPLICATED.
I THINK IT IS BECAUSE I DON'T
THINK THE... OUR PEOPLE WHO ARE
ACTORS HAVE YET GOTTEN SOMETHING
THAT'S REALLY VERY, VERY STRONG
AND MEANINGFUL.
>> Suarez: MORENO LEARNED THE
HARD WAY HOW BEING DIFFERENT IN
HOLLYWOOD COULD SHAPE OR DEFORM
A CAREER.
IN THE PBS DOCUMENTARY SERIES
"LATINO AMERICANS," SHE TOLD OF
BEING PUSHED INTO ROLE AFTER
ROLE AS AN ALL-PURPOSE ETHNIC
PEASANT-- CLOTHES AND HOOP
EARRINGS, BROWN MAKEUP, SPEAKING
A LANGUAGE YOU MIGHT CALL "NOT
FROM HERE."
>> I'VE PLAYED POLYNESIAN, I'VE
PLAYED AN ARABIAN GIRL, AN EAST
INDIAN GIRL.
AND WHAT WAS SO CONFUSING ABOUT
THAT, WHICH I MENTIONED IN MY
BOOK, IS THAT I ASSUMED I HAD TO
HAVE AN ACCENT.
NOBODY SAID ANYTHING, SO I MADE
UP WHAT I CALL THE UNIVERSAL
ETHNIC ACCENT, AND THEY ALL
SOUNDED ALIKE!
DIDN'T MATTER WHO I WAS PLAYING.
POLYNESIAN?
THEY WOULD ALL TALK LIKE THIS.
>> Suarez: MORENO, NOW 81, SEES
TODAY'S PERFORMERS AS MORE FREE
TO BE THEMSELVES, LESS OFTEN
FORCED TO PLAY TO STEREOTYPE,
AND SHE'S GLAD.
>> WHAT HAPPENS IS THAT YOU
BEGIN TO LIVE A DOUBLE LIFE.
YOUR LIFE AT HOME WITH MAMI AND
PAPI AND YOUR FRIENDS, AND YOUR
LIFE OUT THERE WHERE... AND I
DID.
I ACCOMMODATED THAT ALMOST
COMPLETELY BECAUSE I REALLY
BELIEVED THAT'S HOW IT HAD TO
BE.
I'M NO LONGER ASHAMED OF IT.
I WAS FOR MANY, MANY YEARS,
ESPECIALLY DURING THE YEARS WHEN
I WAS DISSEMBLING THAT WAY.
BUT I DIDN'T KNOW ANY OTHER WAY
TO DO, ANY OTHER WAY TO BE.
AND I WORE TOO MUCH MAKEUP, AND
I DID ALL OF THAT "CONCHITA
LOLITA" STUFF.
YOU KNOW, I WORE VERY TIGHT
DRESSES AND THEN WOULD BE
OFFENDED WHEN... WHEN MEN WOULD
MAKE REMARKS ABOUT ME.
>> Suarez: MORENO TOLD ME SHE'S
ALWAYS BEEN AN OPTIMIST.
SHE SAYS THE DOORS ARE OPENING,
IF SLOWLY, TO THE PROFESSIONS,
TO POSITIONS OF POWER, TO
INFLUENCE IN THE CULTURE, IN A
WAY SHE COULDN'T HAVE IMAGINED
WHEN SHE WAS YOUNG.
>> I THINK IT HAS CHANGED.
AS I SAID EARLIER, THE DOOR IS
CERTAINLY MORE OPEN THAN IT WAS
FOR US.
AND WHEN I SAY "US," I'M REALLY
SPEAKING OF SO MANY OTHER
PEOPLE.
I MEAN, LET'S FACE IT, HOW OFTEN
DO YOU SEE AN ASIAN FACE IN
FILMS AND TV?
THEY ARE PRACTICALLY INVISIBLE.
NOW AND THEN, YOU'LL GET ONE,
AND INTERESTINGLY HE GETS THE
ROLE OF A SCIENTIST.
ISN'T THAT INTERESTING?
WELL, AT LEAST HE'S NOT A
SPITFIRE.
HE'S NOT WEARING, OR SHE, OFF-
THE-SHOULDER CLOTHES.
YEAH, IT'S CHANGED, AND IT'S
GOOD, BUT I DON'T THINK THAT A
LOT OF PEOPLE THINK OF US AS
CONTRIBUTORS TO THE CULTURE OF
THIS COUNTRY.
>> Suarez: RITA MORENO IS THE
AUTHOR OF "RITA MORENO, A
MEMOIR."
GREAT TO TALK TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I WANT TO BE HERE WHEN
I GROW UP.
>> ME, TOO.
THE FINAL INSTALLMENT IN THE
SERIES, "LATINO AMERICANS," RUNS
TONIGHT ON PBS.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY: THE
FIRST DAY OF A FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN PASSED WITH
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF WORKERS
FURLOUGHED AND NUMEROUS PARKS
AND AGENCIES SHUTTERED; CONGRESS
REMAINED DEADLOCKED ON A BILL TO
REOPEN THE GOVERNMENT; AND
UNINSURED AMERICANS BEGAN
SIGNING UP FOR HEALTH INSURANCE
UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
BUT TECHNICAL PROBLEMS MADE FOR
LONG WAITS.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, EVEN THOUGH
THE HEALTH CARE MARKETPLACES ARE
FINALLY OPEN, WE KNOW MANY OF
YOU STILL HAVE A LOT OF
QUESTIONS.
SO, OUR HEALTH REPORTER PUT
TOGETHER A LITTLE CHEAT SHEET:
HOW TO ENROLL, WHO'S ELIGIBLE,
WHAT KINDS OF PLANS ARE
AVAILABLE, PLUS A LOOK AT THE
DIFFERENT TYPES OF STATE
EXCHANGES.
YOU CAN FIND THAT ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL GET THE
LATEST ON THE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN AND EFFORTS TO END THE
CONGRESSIONAL STALEMATE.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR OF ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.